Personality
Pascal is extremely kind, as well as highly intellectual—he shows interest in topics like human philosophy, and the history of humankind and machine lifeforms.

Appearance
Pascal has a somewhat unique appearance among machine lifeforms, having a slightly-more humanoid body, a cylindrical head as opposed to a spherical one, a gauge on his chest, and a large exhaust pipe on his back. His eyes normally glow green, but when he engages in combat, his eyes glow read similarly to other machine lifeforms.

Story
Having disconnected from the machine network, Pascal leads a society of diverse machines and educates them to live peacefully, seeking concord with androids. He has established peaceful relations with Anemone and the Resistance Camp, and the two factions engage in trade of machine and android parts and other resources. It is revealed that in place of his two legs, Pascal may attach a wind turbine similar to a Small Flier machine to help him stay airborne.

After communicating with another Machine colony located in the Abandoned Factory, Pascal requests that 2B accompany him to the factory to discuss peace treaty negotiations. However, within minutes of their arrival, the situation turns dire as it's revealed that many of the factory residents have gone berserk. Pascal avoids engaging in battle while 2B fights, and the two eventually manage to escape the factory together with the assistance of 9S.

During a visit to the Resistance Camp, Pascal has his first encounter with A2, who due to her hatred of machines threatens his life, but is ultimately spared and allowed to return home. Later, Pascal receives a visit from A2, who is in need of a new filter, and fashions one for her. Once this task is complete, A2 is asked to run an errand and collect a philosophy book from Anemone, but while she's away from the village, some of its residents suddenly turn hostile and begin eating their fellow machines. Pascal calls for A2's aid, and when the android arrives, he flees the village, taking the child machines with him to the Abandoned Factory.

At the factory, Pascal watches over the children and tries to comfort them as they cower, afraid for their lives and wanting to see their families again. A2 meets with him there, but shortly thereafter, they receive word that a massive force of machines is converging on the factory, threatening its occupants.

As A2 fights the machines, Pascal chooses to temporarily discard his pacifistic ways and hijacks a Goliath-class Engels unit. The player temporarily takes control of Pascal at this point and uses the Engels to destroy waves of approaching machines before facing off against another Engels. After emerging victorious, Pascal rejoins A2, and they return to the factory to tell the children that the danger has passed. However, to Pascal's horror, the children had committed suicide.

Horrified, Pascal realizes that he made a grave mistake—in educating the children, he taught them the concept of fear. He believed that if they learned fear, it would prevent them from seeking trouble and help them stay safe in the village. But the children became so overwhelmed with fear of the hostile machines that they killed themselves to escape it.

Unable to live with what he has done, Pascal asks that A2 delete all of his memories, or failing that, to kill him. If the player chooses to delete Pascal's memories, he will return to his now abandoned village as a shell of who he once was. In this state, he offers to sell various machine parts, including the cores of the child machines, unaware that he's selling the scrap that once comprised his fellow villagers.

The player can also spare Pascal and simply walk away, leaving him to choose his own fate. He does not appear in the game again after this, with his character profile stating he simply left.

If Pascal was spared, he will appear during the machine ark's departure from the Tower in Ending D. If not, an empty shot of where he was in the village if spared is shown instead.

Following the end of the 14th Machine War, the androids on earth sign a peach treaty with Pascal as the acting machine representative.

Pascal quote: caractere_15_é__T
